Assignment - 8 ( Total of 8 question and answers )

1. You have made changes to multiple files in your Git repository and want to stage and commit these changes. What commands would you use to stage all the changes and commit them with a meaningful commit message?

Ans) git add .
    git commit -m "Your meaningful commit message here"

2. You have committed changes to a wrong branch. How would you move these commits to the correct branch?

Ans) # Save the commits
    git log
    git checkout correct-branch
    git cherry-pick <commit-hash1> <commit-hash2>
    # Or use rebase method
    git checkout correct-branch
    git cherry-pick <commit-hash>
    # Or move with stash if necessary
    git checkout wrong-branch
    git stash
    git checkout correct-branch
    git stash pop
    Now, commit your changes on the correct branch
    Then return to the wrong branch and remove the commits if needed
    (e.g., with git reset --hard or git revert).

3. You want to create a new branch, make changes, and push the branch to the remote repository. Outline the steps you would take to create a new branch, commit changes, and push the branch to GitHub.

Ans) git checkout -b new-branch-name
    # (make your changes)
    git add .
    git commit -m "Describe your changes"
    git push origin new-branch-name

4. You want to contribute to an open-source project hosted on GitHub. What are the steps you would follow to fork the repository, make changes, create a pull request, and collaborate with the original project?

Ans)
1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork:
git clone https://github.com/your-username/repo-name.git
cd repo-name
3. Create a new branch for your feature/fix:
git checkout -b feature-branch
4. Make your changes and commit:
git add .
git commit -m "Describe your contribution"
5. Push the branch to your fork:
git push origin feature-branch
6. Create a Pull Request: Go to GitHub, switch to your branch, and click "New Pull Request".
7. Communicate and collaborate: Respond to comments, make changes as requested, and update your PR as necessary.

5. You are working on a team project, and there are conflicts between your branch and the main branch. How would you resolve these merge conflicts? Provide the necessary commands and steps.

Ans) git checkout your-branch
    git fetch origin
    git merge origin/main
    # Fix conflict markers in conflicted files
    git add conflicted-file(s)
    git commit # finalizes the merge after resolution

6. You want to create a feature branch based on the latest changes in the main branch. What commands would you use to create a new branch and automatically switch to it, ensuring it's up to date with the latest changes from the main branch?

Ans) git checkout main
    git pull origin main
    git checkout -b feature-branch

7. You have made a series of commits, but you realize that a change made several commits ago is causing issues in your application. How would you revert to a specific commit, discarding all changes made after that commit?

Ans) git reset --hard <commit-hash>
    if you've already pushed, also force-push:
    git push --force

8. You have accidentally deleted a file in your Git repository and committed the change. What commands would you use to restore the deleted file from the previous commit?

Ans) git checkout HEAD^ -- path/to/deleted_file
    git add path/to/deleted_file
    git commit -m "Restore deleted file"